I">'<p><strong>Attempting to compare two of the greatest players of all time is kinda hard.</strong></p>

<p>But I will attempt to do so. I’ll be going over some of the arguments I’ve come across and writing what I think. To begin lets start with the number of championships each player won and how good of an assessment that statistic is in comparing James and Jordan. In that regard, Jordan won 6, while James, as of 2020, has won 4. James will probably be playing at least four more seasons, so we have time to see what happens. However, it is safe to assume that the chances of him overtaking MJ and achieving seven rings are slim. For such a feat to happen, back in 2017, he had to overcome one of the all-time best teams in NBA history, if not the best in Golden State Warriors. Not only did the Dubs put up a record 73 wins in the regular season of 2015–2016, but they also added Kevin Durant to the team alongside the only unanimous MVP in NBA history, Stephen Curry, with his other teammates Klay Thompson and Draymond Green. It will not be an exaggeration to say that this GSW team is nothing like whatever MJ had to face en-route any of his championship journeys. But Jordan was consistent. He won three straight championships with the bulls before retiring temporarily and then returned as if nothing had changed in two long years only to win three more rings without a break. That is true greatness. At the peak of his prime, Jordan claimed what he deserved most dramatically. Lebron’s run with the Heat would have been similar had they not lost the 2011 finals, which remains a question mark on his resume, or the 2014 finals, which was a disaster. And once upon a time, beating the Golden State Warriors just once was in itself a herculean task that demands more credit than it is given.</p>

<p>If you give the argument that MJ never lost in the finals as opposed to James, who has a record of four wins and six losses in the finals, that’s lame. Now, in a finals game, things can go wrong. Any team that comes until the finals has proven that its players are the best in the league (or at least half the league - considering the East/West conference division). Lebron has been to 10 finals as of 2020 and might have a few more in the time to come. So, to summarize, finals records are dumb.</p>

<p>Clutch Ability: No doubt, Jordan is still the best all time clutch player ever to grace the court as his performance in the last moments of the game has always been phenomenal. If the game is tied or on the line and comes down to the last couple of possessions, anybody who knows to play basketball would feed the ball to MJ. In terms of confidence and the will power to take control of situations where it matters the most, Jordan beats James and any other sports superstar we have ever seen. You have to look at him and know that this is the guy who will make it happen. However, it is also true that basketball is a team game, and on most occasions, a player needs to make the right decisions for the team (at least theoretically), and that is something that Lebron James does best. James is a basketball mastermind who can analyze a given situation and develop the best play possible. The execution part might be different, but it takes humility to be the best player on the planet and yet choose to pass the ball to a better shooter for closing the game on a finals stage.</p>

<p>Moreover, the most common mistake that people make is to define greatness by the momentous events on a grand stage, like the last minutes of a final game. So they argue that Lebron relied on Irving to make a game-closing three and seal the deal for the Cavaliers in the 2016 victory. But they fail to see that it would have never come to that had there been no block by James on Iguodala and had James not averaged a triple-double to get the Cavs to come back from a 3–1 deficit that no team had ever been able to do in NBA history.</p>

<p>Scoring: As far as getting the numbers on the board is concerned, MJ is better. He could give you points in the most unimaginable of situations, and he would make it seem effortless. James is not as great a scorer as Jordan. But, for an all-round player, I believe James is ahead of Jordan. Apart from free throws, Lebron can do everything that Jordan was capable of, and in most situations, Lebron was better. There is a reason why James earned the title of ‘the best attacker of the ring,’ and when you see James coming in for a dunk, you could either let him have it or go down to the floor with the basket! But then, there’s a difference. If it’s the last decisiveness shot for the game, and the outcome depends on it, Jordan would take it and make it. James would still make the right play, but the result is not usually in his favor. Although James knows that he is the best active player on the planet, he would pass the ball to Kyle Korver if he is open at the 3 point line just because theoretically, Korver is a better shooter of the ball than Lebron. Now that isn’t always the right decision. Jordan has his conviction that he can deliver in times of extreme pressure. James likes to share the glory by getting his teammates involved. It is not his fault if the teammates miss the shot in the process (Danny Green), but Lebron must do whatever it takes to win for the fans and the franchise. Jordan knew he could win if he took matters into his hands, and he did. Lebron has a different approach and if it doesn’t work as well as it did for Jordan, well, then consider Jordan better in that regard.</p>

<p>Dominance: This is where it gets fascinating. Lebron has been named the best player in the league consistently for over a decade. He is the king, and the league’s value will take a dip if he leaves. But in all those years, he won the championship only three times, with a streak of 2 in 2012 and 2013. His ultimate control over the league competition has been on and off, thanks to the very talented western conference. But it a whole different story with Jordan. The dude won his first three rings in a row(1991 -1993). It was getting monotonous, so he left basketball for two years, during which his team loses in the playoffs before reaching the conference finals. And guess what, when he decided to come back, he immediately won 3 more rings. That was sheer dominance. I mean, was it a joke? The comparison here is that with James, we have been saying that if he plays, his team reaches the NBA finals, but with Jordan, its like if he plays, his team wins the NBA finals. The guy went out with six rings and decided to stop playing again. Now there is no telling what would have happened if he had not decided to skip the two years in between and a few years after 1998. Would the bulls have dominated for the whole decade? It seems likely, but let’s build it any further than what’s true. James has been making the finals for seven straight years, but he didn’t go all the way as Jordan did. But you can’t put Jordan ahead of James as several tangibles come into the picture. If winning the championship is the metric, then it is unfair to compare player vs. player. It would be more apt to compare Jordans’s bulls to Lebron’s Lakers/Heat/Cavs. Bulls were better as a team. That doesn’t necessarily mean Jordan was better than James, although that might seem more likely.</p>

<p>Accomplishments: In this regard, Jordan had accomplished all the practical feats that were required for him to be inducted into the GOAT conversation. On the other hand, Lebron came into the league when MJ had already been unmistakably titled the GOAT. So all that Lebron has been able to do is chase the ghost of Chicago. Although Lebron is putting up insane stats, getting his teammates involved, and doing all the right things to solidify his legacy, he is still below some of the metrics established by MJ fans. And the metrics go on. One sad truth about having GOAT contenders is that players who play to win alongside legends don’t get accounted for in the GOAT conversations. For example, when Stephen Curry and Kevin Durant played for the Golden State Warriors, they were gifted players in their class. However, no matter how great each of them is individually, they do not overshadow one another or the other players on their team. Suppose we were to take them away, at that time, and put them into different teams. In that case, they might have ended up with MVP performances all round the season and would have had to struggle to make the playoffs, something like what Giannis Antetokounmpo is doing for the Milwaukee Bucks. Giannis is still 25, has won his second consecutive MVP, and will predictably be in the GOAT conversation in the years to come. But what’s so different about Giannis that might put him in the same sentence alongside Kobe, Michael, and Lebron? Now the question isn’t actually about Giannis being there, its about how we ended up with that league of three players who were the face of the NBA one after the other. We don’t usually put Curry and sometimes KD in the same league, but Giannis has a chance.</p>

<p>All I’m trying to say is that whatever metrics we come up with, they fall short of explaining greatness on the court. We could build up our metrics and the debate would never stop. It’s just so much fun to compare players, especially when they are from different eras. But realistically speaking, it is impossible to do so. There is no gain in defining the GOAT, and even if there were such a title to be given to one player over all others, each person would have his/her logic to who the real GOAT is. As a fan, I want to vote for LeBron because I grew up watching him and have seen him achieve greatness. But for you and the rest of the world this opinion might differ. People talk about the greats after they accomplish the things they do, but many fail to give credit to the moment’s greatness. It isn’t the result. It’s the journey. So I’d say stop making comparisons and enjoy the game.</p>
:ET